The sancturary is filled with monsters, not spirits, and there are different types of monsters too, although spirit could be incorporated if made sense.

For now, the monsters are 

Geo's Monster: After being deprived of food for many years, his body has started to diminish and his skin fades, revealing his bones. After being used to such a high caloric intake, his body adapted over the last millenium to better suit his new lifestyle, his eternal hunger driving him into a relentless frenzy to anyone in his path.

Ethan's Monster: His fast speed was often his greatest strength in the sanctuary, until a fight with Geo who devoured his lower half of his body, which in turn lead Ethan to taking his arms. Now Ethan hides in the walls, striking anyone who resembles a humanlike appearance in hopes to get revenge on Geo

Yousseff's Monster: After years of hiding in the cracks of the sanctuary, the Parasite was able to kill a highly trained police man and take over his body while deranging his face to scare off any threats. Now it lives as Yousseff, a highly trained officer who is deadly with a blade.

Arjun's Monster: A shy monster who loves to shapeshift into commonly used objects to trap his victims. At one point he realized chasing is pointless, and he just needs to let the victims come to him before giving them a slow death.

Henry's Monster: Henry loves to induce fear into unsuspecting foes. His ability lets him be unnoticable until it's too late and he has the victim in his grasp. He always wanted to develope a power for stealth to hide from Geo, but now utilizes it to find his own prey.

Adam's Monster: A rather shy monster, Adam likes to live in the dark and mind his own business. If the power is on, it really makes Adam uncomfortable, leading him to turning it off. Also unlike other monsters, Adam is scared of the player and will vanish for some time after coming close to one.

Robert's Monster: A very annoying ghost for everyone, Robert hides in a random room of his choice, and if that room is entered by the player, Robert will start to yell and talk. The monsters on the map are very sensitive to Robert's voice and will make their way to the room to try to put an end to Robert, who always seems to slip away. Robert also likes to be in the dark and disables the light in his room of choice.

Ian's Monster: Ian was cast away long ago to his own realm, where he gobbles on ketchup day and night. The cursed sauce was sealed in a bottle somewhere in the sanctuary. If the player were to use the bottle to set up a teleporter, it would lead to the escape of Ian, and the ultimate demise of the player. Be careful not to get stained by the ketchup, otherwise Ian will be a lot harder to escape.

Vlad's Monster: After the fall of the sanctuary, Vlad started to build himself and his body up through working out, leaving a bunch of his old pre-workout around the sanctuary. Becoming such a fiend for the pre, he can detect if anyone dares to touch his canisters, and will run at top speed towards the perpetrator. The pre causes the player to be able to temporarily run faster, but also he be trippin

